# Datadog technical exercise for Solutions Engineers

Datadog is a full service cloud-scale monitoring solution that gathers metrics and events generated by both your infrastructure
as well as your applications. From containers, to cloud providers, to bare metal machines, from container management, to databases, to web servers,
Datadog is able to handle most modern infrastructure solutions.

Datadog provides a wide array of integrations that can handle common infrastructure needs. These integrations allow you to gather metrics 
quickly and in one central location. All metrics and statistics datadog gathers can be displayed in a single pane of glass which can be on a single
screen in a NOC or other operations center. These metrics can be turned into graphs and dashboards which can then be drilled down into further for 
a more detailed look at your infrastructure. Alerts can also be created to warn your teams that something is wrong before it becomes a larger problem.
Alerts can be sent in a variety of ways, including email, pagerduty, slack, hipchat, and others.

You can test datadog out yourself here [https://www.datadoghq.com/](https://www.datadoghq.com/) for a free 14 day trial.

## Contents

- [Prerequisites](#Prerequisites)
   - [Setup an AWS user for Terraform](#Setup-an-AWS-user-for-Terraform)

- [Data Collection](#Data-Collection)
   - [Level 0 - Setup a ubuntu instance](#Level--0--Setup-a-ubuntu-instance)
      - [Auto build EC2 instance with Terraform](#Auto-build-EC2-instance-with-Terraform)

   - [Level 1 - Collect your data](#Level--1--Collect-your-data)
      - [Auto installing the agent with Ansible](#Auto-installing-the-agent-with-Ansible)
      - [Bonus: What is the agent?](#Bonus:-What-is-the-agent?)
      - [Adding tags](#Adding-tags)
      - [Auto install MySQL with Ansible](#Auto-install-MySQL-with-Ansible)
      - [Custom Agent Check](#Custom-Agent-Check)

   - [Level 2 - Visualizing your data](#Level--2--Visualizing-your-data)
      - [Clone your database integration dashboard](#Clone-your-database-integration-dashboard)
      - [Bonus: What is the difference between a timeboard and a screenboard?](#Bonus:-What-is-the-difference-between-a-timeboard-and-a-screenboard?)
      - [Grab a snapshot of your test random graph, draw a box when above 0.90 and email](#Grab-a-snapshot-of-your-test-random-graph,-draw-a-box-when-above-0.90-and-email)

   - [Level 3 - Alerting on your data](#Level--3--Alerting-on-your-data)
      - [Monitoring your metrics, set an alert for test random for over 0.90](#Monitoring-your-metrics,-set-an-alert-for-test-random-for-over-0.90)
      - [Bonus: Make it multi-alert by host for scalability](#Bonus:-Make-it-multi-alert-by-host-for-scalability)
      - [Set monitor name and message](#Set-monitor-name-and-message)
      - [Monitor alert Email](#Monitor-alert-Email)
      - [Bonus: Set scheduled downtime for monitor, make sure Email is notified](#Bonus:-Set-scheduled-downtime-for-monitor,-make-sure-Email-is-notified)
